 Public Policy :
From legal issues
   to privacy
Legal issues of internet commerce

 1. Trademarks and Domain Names
 2. Copyright and the Internet
 3. Jurisdiction Issues
 4. Service Provider Liability
 5. Formation of an Enforceable Online Contract
Privacy - Meaning

privacy is the right to be let alone, or freedom
from interference or intrusion. Information
privacy is the right to have some control over
how your personal information is collected
and used.
 Privacy - E commerce
The definition of online privacy is the level of privacy protection
an individual has while connected to the Internet. It covers the
amount of online security available for personal and financial
data, communications, and preferences. Internet users often
attempt to increase online privacy through anti-virus software,
strong password choices, turning off tracking, reviewing site
security, and opting for stricter privacy settings. Risks to online
privacy range from phishing scams to malware, while problems
with website security may result in identity theft.
Privacy threats to E commerce
 1. Financial Frauds
 2. Phishing
 3. Spamming
 4. Distributed Denial of Service Attack
 5. Malware
 6. Exploitation of Known Vulnerabilities - SQL injection
 7. Bots
 8. Brute Force
 9. Man in the middle
10. E skimming
Protecting Privacy in E commerce
 1. Maintain An Inventory Of Service Components And Test Regularly
 2. Transition To A Mesh Architecture
 3. Employ Automated Testing Solutions
 4. Explore Encryption-In-Use Solutions
 5. Eliminate Passwords
 6. Apply Cybersecurity Best Practices To Data Storage
 7. Ensure You Meet Required Privacy Standards For Mobile Apps
 8. Educate Remote Employees On Security Risks
 9. Leverage Behavioral Analytics To Pinpoint Suspicious Behavior
10. Enforce The Least-Privileged Principle
Intellectual Property - Meaning

Intellectual property (IP) refers to creations of the
mind, such as inventions; literary and artistic
works; designs; and symbols, names and images
used in commerce.
Protecting Intellectual Property
1. Don't File Patents
2. Run Lean And Fast
3. Separate Teams
4. Open-Source It
5. Avoid Joint Ownership
6. Get Exact-Match Domains
7. Safeguard With Strong Access Control
8. Get Strong Non-Disclosure Agreements
9. Publish It Widely With Attribution
Free Speech
Freedom of speech is a principle that supports
the freedom of an individual or a community to
articulate their opinions and ideas without fear of
retaliation, censorship, or legal sanction by the
government. The right to freedom of expression
has been recognised as a human right in the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and
international human rights law by the United
Internet indecency and censorship
Internet censorship puts restrictions on what
information can be publicized or viewed on the
Internet. Governments and other organizations
commonly use internet censorship to block
access to copyrighted information as well as to
harmful or sensitive content.
Taxation Policy - India
Under Income Tax Act

 1. Section 194-O (introduced by Finance Act,2020)

E-Commerce operators should deduct TDS @1% on the gross amount of such
sales or services or both at the time of credit of the amount of sale of goods,
services, or both to the account of an e-commerce participant or at the time of
making payment to an e-Commerce participant by any other mode, whichever is
earlier.

Suppose there is sales of Rs 30 lacs and returns of Rs 5 lacs, TDS should be
deducted @ 1% on Rs 30 lacs and not on Rs 25 lacs.
Taxation Policy - India
Under Income Tax Act

2. Section 165- Equalization Levy (introduced by Finance Act,2016)

It gets triggered when-
i. A resident person carrying on business/profession in India or
ii. Non-Resident having a permanent establishment in India makes payment for online/digital advertising to
a Non-Resident not having a permanent establishment in India.

Limit- Consideration should exceed Rs 1 lacs per year

Liability to deduct/pay equalization levy- Person paying for Online/Digital Advertising

Rate- 6% of the consideration for online advertising

Exclusions- Advertisement for personal purposes
Taxation Policy - India
Under Income Tax Act

2. Section 165A- Equalization Levy (introduced by Finance Act,2020)

It gets triggered when consideration is received by the E-Commerce Operator from e-commerce supply or
services provided by it to-

i. A person resident in India
ii. A Non-Resident in the specified circumstances
iii. A person who buys goods or services or both using Internet Protocol Address located in India
Taxation Policy - India
Under GST Act

1. Section 52 of CGST Act,2017- Every electronic commerce operator shall collect an amount
calculated at such rate not exceeding one per cent, as may be notified by the Government on the
recommendations of the Council, of the net value of taxable supplies made through it by other
suppliers where the consideration with respect to such supplies is to be collected by the operator. As
per the Explanation, “net value of taxable supplies” shall mean that the taxable supplies returned to
the suppliers shall be reduced from the gross value of taxable supplies.

Limit – No such limit specified

Liability to collect tax – E-Commerce Operator

Rate- 0.5% of Net Value of Taxable Supplies as CGST and SGST each (Intra-State Sale) 1% of Net Value
of Taxable Supplies as IGST (Inter-State Sale)
Taxation Policy - India
Payment of TCS with Department- Within 10 days after the end of the month in which TCS was
collected

Filing of Monthly Statement- Within 10 days after the end of the month in which TCS was collected

Filing of Annual Statement- On or before 31st Day of December following the end of such FY

Credit Claimed- Supplier will claim credit of TCS in his Electronic Cash Ledger

Matching of Outward Supplies- Outward supplies shown by the Suppliers in their returns will be
matched with outward supplies shown by the E-Commerce Operators
Taxation Policy - India
Under GST Act

2. Section 9(5) of CGST Act,2017-
i. Passenger Transport Service by Cab or Motorcycle – 100% tax payable by ECO,
irrespective of the fact whether cab operator is registered or not

ii. Accommodation for lodging or residential purposes in hotels, inns, etc. – i. Hotels, etc.
are liable to register- ECO is not liable to pay tax

iii. Hotels, etc. are not registered- ECO is liable to pay tax iii. Housekeeping, Plumbing,
Carpeting- i. Plumbers, etc. are liable to register- ECO is not liable to pay tax ii. Plumbers,
etc. are not registered- ECO is liable to pay tax
Thank You
